W-13764567 secure config props duke (#76)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/int-create-secure-configs.adoc

= Secure Configuration Properties 

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

> Encrypt sensitive values of properties used in your Mule application, and hide the name of the decryption key in Runtime Manager when the application deploys to CloudHub. 

Author: ```suggestion
Encrypt sensitive values of properties used in your Mule application, and hide the name of the encryption key in Runtime Manager when the application deploys to CloudHub. 
```

> 

Author: IN PROGRESS, VERY DRAFTY...
so it's not ready for a real review, but if something is wrong, that would be good to know

//TODO: SCREENSHOT SHOWING the files in the project and config XML

> TODO TO SELF - SIMPLIFY THE FOLLOWING TO MAKE MORE CONCEPTUAL AND LESS TASK-ORIENTED. ALSO USE CONTENT TO CREATE NUMBERED STEPS (started), WITH ENOUGH DETAIL TO COMPLETE. 

Author: also cover the use of the `env.` variable for the deployment environment to the doc, requested by Simone

> Encrypt properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting, create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which the encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main` directory of the project for your Mule application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encrypt properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting, create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which the encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main/resources` directory of the project for your Mule application.
```

> Encrypt properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting,  create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which the encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main` directory of the project for your Mule application.

Author: ```suggestion
Encrypt properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting, create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which the encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main` directory of the project for your Mule application.
```

> Encrypt properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting, create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which the encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main/resources` directory of the project for your Mule application.

Author: ```suggestion
Encrypt one or more properties using the MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool. After encrypting, create a file for the properties. In the file, specify key-value pairs for which each encrypted property is the value and the key is a unique name of your choice, for example, `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`. Specify the key-value pairs in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file, and put the file in the `src/main/resources` directory of the project for your Mule application.
```

Author: @matias-mule How about this at the beginning to clarify that you can encrypt more than one property.

> To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the decryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the value. `<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.

Author: ```suggestion
To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property with a `secure::` prefix in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the decryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the value. `<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.
```

> To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property with a `secure::` prefix in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the decryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the value. `<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property with a `secure::` prefix in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the encryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the property value (or values).`<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.
```
The secure properties file could have many encrypted properties. (All of them should be encrypted with the same key and algorithm)

Author: Just FYI: `<<algorithms, algorithm>>` is for an Asciidoc link to the Algorithms section near the end of the page (`[[algorithms]]`).

Author: @matias-mule slight tweak to your suggestions for doc style guideline purposes

> To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property with a `secure::` prefix in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the decryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the value. `<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.

Author: ```suggestion
To use an encrypted value in a Mule application, specify the key of your encrypted property with a `secure::` prefix in the configuration XML. For example, for `my.property : "![En8lII21ZHrdIaINw0+mSA==]"`, use `${secure::my.property}` instead of the encrypted value. Also configure the Secure Configuration Properties snippet (`<secure-properties:config/>`) to identify your properties file, the name of the encryption key (`encryption.key` by default), and the same <<algorithms, algorithm>> that was used to encrypt the value (or values). `<secure-properties:config/>` is a global element at the same level as the `<flow/>` element.
```

> Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma before the preceding line.

Author: ```suggestion
Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma before the preceding line:
```

> Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma before the preceding line:

Author: ```suggestion
Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma to the end of the preceding line:
```

> Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma to the end of the preceding line:

Author: ```suggestion
Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` so that your deployment to CloudHub hides the key name from Runtime Manager. For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma to the end of the preceding line:
```

> Before deploying your application, provide the name of decryption key as a `secureProperties` value in `mule-artifact.json` so that your deployment to CloudHub hides the key name from Runtime Manager. For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma to the end of the preceding line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying your application, add the name of the encryption key to a `secureProperties` array of sensitive values in `mule-artifact.json` so that your deployment to CloudHub hides the key name from Runtime Manager. For example, if `encryption.key` is the name of the key, add the following `secureProperties` line to the file, making sure add a comma to the end of the preceding line:
```
That properties ("secureProperties" of the mule-artifact.json file) is a list of keys that should be treated as sensitive. (see https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.1/intro-packaging#app_descriptor)

Author: @matias-mule How about this, modifying your suggestion slightly?

Author: Maybe I should call it the key the "encryption key," as well, instead of "decryption key," which could be confusing here.

----
{
    "minMuleVersion": "4.4.0",

>     "secureProperties": [encryption.key]

Author: ```suggestion
    "secureProperties": [encryption.key, other.value.to.hide]
```

Author: @matias-mule How about this, adding an example of another value in the array?

}
----

When you deploy your application to CloudHub, the UI prompts you for the value of your encryption key. After you complete your deployment, Mule Runtime hides the name of the encryption key. When you navigate to the *Properties* tab for the application in Runtime Manager, the encryption key is hidden. 

//TODO: EXAMPLES THAT HAVE CONTEXT 
// * CONFIG XML WITH THE EMBEDDED Secure Configuration Properties snippet AND A COMPONENT OR CONNECTOR WITH A SECURE PROPERTY CONFIG
// * PROPERTIES FILE WITH A SECURED PROPERTY as part of the key-value pair
// * mule-artifact.json example is above

[[steps]]
IN PROGRESS, NEEDS A LOT OF CONTEXT STILL... SOME SCREENSHOTS

> //TODO: PROB 3 SECTIONS: encrypt property, apply/use property, hide decryption key

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO: PROB 3 SECTIONS: encrypt property, apply/use property, hide encryption/decryption key
```

The following examples use the Blowfish algorithm to encrypt two strings (`"myusername"` and `"mypassword"`), provide the same encryption key _value_ (`my-key`), and use the default encryption mode, CBC. 

* This example encrypts `"myusername"` as `dlwfnITNF2aBCLn588sgFA==`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \
> string \
> encrypt \
> Blowfish \
> CBC \
> my-key \
> "myusername"
dlwfnITNF2aBCLn588sgFA==
----

* This example encrypts `"mypassword"` as `n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \
> string \
> encrypt \
> Blowfish \
> CBC \
> my-key \
> "mypassword"
n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==
----

For step-by-step instructions on encrypting properties in a Mule application, see <<encrypt>>. For more encryption options, see xref:mule-runtime::secure-configuration-properties.adoc[].

//H2 PROCEDURE: ENCRYPT
[[encrypt]]
== Encrypt Sensitive Values in a Mule Application

Use the Secure Properties Tool to encrypt sensitive data in your properties files. 

. Create a properties file with _unencrypted_ properties:
+

> //TODO: ADD SCREENSHOT OF DIRECTORY AND PROPERTIES FILE

Author: ```suggestion
images::acb-project-directory.png["project direction in a Mule app"]
```

> images::acb-project-directory.png["project direction in a Mule app"]

Author: ```suggestion
image::acb-project-directory.png["project direction in a Mule app"]
```

= Define and Secure Properties for a Mule Application

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

Create properties that enable you to:

* Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.

> * Easily select settings, such as different hosts, ports, and directory paths, for a specific deployment environment (development, sandbox, production, or another environment). 

Author: ```suggestion
* Easily select properties files with settings, such as different hosts, ports, and directory paths, for a specific deployment environments (development, sandbox, production, or other deployment target). 
```

> * Easily select properties files with settings, such as different hosts, ports, and directory paths, for a specific deployment environments (development, sandbox, production, or other deployment target). 

Author: ```suggestion
* Easily change properties files to use for different deployment environments (development, sandbox, production, or other deployment target). 
```

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

Create properties that enable you to:

* Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.

* Select different property files for a specific deployment environment, such as  development, sandbox, or production. 

[[get-familiar]]
== Get Familiar With Configuration Properties and Encryption

Before following step-by-step procedures for encrypting the properties or deploying applications that use the properties, learn the basics: 

* <<properties>>
* <<encryption-tool>>
* <<prop-file>>

//H3 section: properties 
//some tasks link to additional guidance with the properties
[[properties]]
=== Configuration Properties in a Mule Application

Connectors and components in the Mule configuration XML accept variables for sensitive and non-sensitive data. The variables are defined in a `.yaml` or Spring-formatted `.properties` file that you create and store in the `src/main/resources` directory of the project for your Mule application. For example:

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Unencrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys
| Encrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys

| 
[source,yaml]
----

> ftp:
>   workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
>   host: localhost
>   uname: myusername
>   pw: mypassword
> env: dev

Author: ```suggestion
ftp:
  workingDir: "/Users/me/myworkingdir"
  host: "localhost"
  uname: "myusername"
  pw: "mypassword"
env: "dev"
```

----
|
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:

>   workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
>   host: localhost
>   uname: ![UqoJI2fvggE=]
>   pw: ![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]
> env: dev

Author: ```suggestion
  workingDir: "/Users/me/myworkingdir"
  host: "localhost"
  uname: "![UqoJI2fvggE=]"
  pw: "![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]"
env: "dev"
```

----
|===

Property values in the XML configuration of a Mule application require the following syntax:

* `${property-key}` for unencrypted values

> * `${secure::property-key}` for encrypted values

Reviewer: I didn't know about this, but I trust you try it and it worked :)

Author: @matias-mule I'm not clear why this part about the syntax is controversial. Is something confusing? It's common to use something like `${port}` in the config XML for a property like `host: port` defined in a properties file, so the syntax in that case is `${property-key}`. And we use `{secure::somesecureproperty}` for a sensitive property like `mysensitiveprop : "![/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5]"` so the syntax is `${secure::property-key}`.

Reviewer: I thought that every property defined inside that file was accessed using `secure::` prefix. Like a way to access the properties at the file regardless if those were encrypted or not.
But I take your word

Author: I'll double check just in case. Thx for the heads up.

Author: @matias-mule You are totally CORRECT! Thank you! 😄  My mistake. The unencrypted value in that file needed the `secure::` prefix. Thanks so much for catching that. I thought I'd tested it... 😬

Author: I wonder if this is the case only for properties files that are referenced by the `<secure-properties:config/>` element. I guess it's different if you reference a file with `<configuration-properties/>`:  https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.4/configuring-properties#supported_files

* CBC (default)
* CFB
* ECB
* OFB

For step-by-step instructions on encrypting properties in a Mule application, see <<encrypt>>. 

[[prop-file]]
=== Property Files for Different Deployment Targets

Hosts, ports, directories, and other settings in the configuration XML often differ depending on the target environment for your deployment, such as the development, sandbox, or production environment. For example, on your desktop, the host name is typically `localhost`, the port something like `8081`, and the directory is a path on your local machine rather than a path to an external host.

When developing your application in the IDE, create separate properties files for each of the target environment that requires different settings, and provide the  appropriate settings in each file. 

[[filename-patterns]]
Typical filenames follow patterns like these:

* `dev.properties.yaml` or `dev.secure.yaml` for your development environment in the IDE
* `sandbox.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for a pre-production environment
* `prod.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for the production environment

> Consistent filename patterns enable you to use an `$\{env}` variable in your configuration XML for the prefix to the filename, for example, `$\{env}.properties.yaml` or `$\{env}.secure.yaml`. 

Author: note that the backslash (`$\{env}`) is to escape the opening curly brace; otherwise, this gets treated as an Asciidoc variable and converts "env" to "site". strange but true...

Author: but when in code block formatting, the escape character isn't needed. This is ok:
```
----
.... ${env}
----
```

. In the `mule-artifact.json` file for your application, provide the _name_ of the encryption key (`encryption.key` by default) that you provided in the global `<secure-properties:config/>` snippet within your configuration XML. For example:
+
----
{
    "minMuleVersion": "4.4.0",
    "secureProperties": [encryption.key, other.value.to.hide]
}
----
+
The _name_ (not the _value_) of your encryption key goes into a comma-separated `secureProperties` array. Later in this procedure, when you deploy your application to CloudHub, the IDE prompts you to provide the _value_ of the encryption key that you provided through the Secure Configuration Tool when encrypting your sensitive properties.
. Deploy your application to CloudHub by pressing Cmd+shift+p (Windows) or Ctrl+shift+p (Mac) and entering *MuleSoft: Deploy to CloudHub*.
. When prompted, enter _the same value_ you used to encrypt your secure properties.
+
If you do not enter the same value, the application is able to upload to CloudHub, but the deployment will fail because the encryption key value will not work.
. Select the *Sandbox* environment for your deployment.
+

> Other environments are not supported, and attempts to deploy to the *Design* environment fail with a `500` error code. While the deployment is in progress, the IDE provides the status of the process and prompts you to open the application in Runtime Manager when the deployment completes.  

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this. I know that Design is not supported. But I thought any other env would be supported (if the user has permission)

Author: My understanding is that we don't allow them to deploy directly to Prod from ACB. @simoneegeib Could there be other environments?

Author: we'll find out during PM review of this doc on the beta site

The file names must follow a consistent pattern so that you can configure a variable such as `$\{env}` as a modifiable prefix that enables you to switch to the file that contains settings for the environment in which your application runs. You can include encrypted and unencrypted property values in the files.

To configure and use the `env` variable as a prefix to a filename:

. Using a consistent filename pattern, create properties files for each environment that requires different settings.
+ 
For guidance with naming and configuring the contents of properties files, review <<prop-file>>.
. If you are using the `<secure-properties/>` or another element that points to your properties file, provide a prefix, such as `$\{env}`, to the file name. For example:
+
----
file="${env}.secure.yaml"
----
+
See <<prefix, Secure Properties example>> for more detail. 
. Add a `<global-property/>` element to the configuration XML that defines the value of `env` property. 
+
[source,xml]
----
<global-property name="env" value="dev" />

> ----

Reviewer: This is a way. But another way could be to add the `env: "sandbox"` at the `deploy.json` file under "properties" field.
ie: [example](https://github.com/mulesoft/mule-dx-acb-examples-documentation/blob/388caa51a5ef6f15270901f8ad858b3fdd6e20ef/secure-properties-app/src/main/resources/deploy.json#L8)
PS: Following this way, to make it work locally, the `env` variable should be defined as a run configuration as with the `encryption.key`

Author: @matias-mule I'm not sure how to get `deploy.json` to appear except when I try to deploy to cloudhub. Then the file appears, but I have to stop the deployment to edit the JSON file. 

Is there another way to get the `deploy.json` file to appear in the project directory?

Reviewer: @greobasco do you know?
I'm not sure if there's another way to autogenerate that file.

Reviewer 2: No, this is the only (convenient) way to generate the file currently. You can always create it manually if you want but that is far from ideal.

Author: @greobasco I tried creating it manually just for the one property for the `env` key-value pair, but if when you try to deploy, it causes an error (probably bc other info is missing). 

So.. Do you and @matias-mule think it is ok to only tell people to add the setting in Runtime Manager in the Properties tab? That's the only procedure I have in the docs right now, and not the deploy.json. 

It's an awkward UX to start the deployment to create deploy.json, stop it to edit, and then deploy.

Reviewer: That's fine by me

  <ftp:connection workingDir="${secure::ftp.workingDir}" host="${secure::ftp.host}"
    port="21" username="${secure::ftp.uname}" password="${secure::ftp.pw}" />
</ftp:config>
<flow>
  ...
</flow>
---- 
+
For step-by-step instructions with encrypted values, see <<encrypt>>. 

[[prop-files]]
=== Property Files for Different Deployment Targets

Hosts, ports, directories, and other settings in the configuration XML often differ depending on the target environment for your deployment, such as the development, sandbox, or production environment. For example, on your desktop, the host name is typically `localhost`, the port something like `8081`, and the directory is a path on your local machine rather than a path to an external host.

When developing your application in the IDE, create separate properties files for each of the target environments that require different settings, and provide the appropriate settings in each file. 

[[filename-patterns]]
Typical filenames follow patterns like these:

* `dev.properties.yaml` or `dev.secure.yaml` for your development environment in the IDE
* `sandbox.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for a pre-production environment

> * `prod.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for the production environment

Author: ```suggestion
* `prod.properties.yaml` or `prod.secure.yaml` for the production environment
```

== Encrypt Sensitive Values in a Mule Application

Use the Secure Properties Tool to encrypt sensitive data in your properties files. 

image::acb-project-directory.png["Project Directory for a Mule Application Workspace"]

. Create a properties file with _unencrypted_ properties:
.. Open the `src/main/resources` directory of your project, and create a YAML file with a name like `dev.secure.yaml` or `local.secure.yaml` that configures properties as key-value pairs. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
myprop : "somevalue"

mysensitiveprop : "somesensitivevalue"
---- 
+
For more guidance, see <<properties>>.
. Encrypt sensitive properties:
.. Download the https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.4/_attachments/secure-properties-tool.jar[Secure Properties Tool], an executable JAR file for encrypting properties.
.. From the command line, run the Secure Properties Tool on the values you intend to secure.
+
.Example that encrypts `"mysensitivevalue"` using Blowfish and `my-key` for an encryption key password:
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \ string \
encrypt \
Blowfish \
CBC \
my-key \
"mysensitivevalue" 
----
+

> Important: Be sure to store your encryption key value (password) in a safe location that you can retrieve when you deploy your application. If you do not enter the correct password, the application is able to upload to CloudHub, but the deployment will fail because the password will not work.

Author: ```suggestion
Important: +
Be sure to store your encryption key value (password) in a safe location that you can retrieve when you deploy your application. If you do not enter the correct password, the application is able to upload to CloudHub, but the deployment will fail because the password will not work.
```

+
.Encrypted Output:
[source,terminal]
----
/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5
----
+
For more information, see <<encrypt>>. 

. In your properties file, add each encrypted property value within `![]` brackets.
+
.Example that replaces the unencrypted value `"mysensitivevalue"` with the encrypted value `"![/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5]"`:
[source,yaml]
----
myprop : "somevalue"
mysensitiveprop : "![/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5]"
---- 
For guidance, see <<properties>>.

. Use the encrypted value in a Mule application:
+
//TODO: SCREENSHOT OF FLOW AND CONFIGURED Secure Configuration Properties snippet
.. Add the key to the encrypted property as a value of an attribute in the connector or component XML. For example:
+
[source,xml]
----
<set-payload 
  value="${secure::mysensitiveprop}" 
  doc:name="Set payload" doc:id="abcdef" />
----

> .. Above the `<flow/>` element in your the configuration XML, add the Secure Configuration Properties _snippet_ (`<secure-properties:config/>`) by pressing Ctrl+Space (Mac) or Cmd+Space(Windows), typing the initial letters of the element name, such as `secu`, and selecting the snippet.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Above the `<flow/>` element in your the configuration XML, add the Secure Configuration Properties _snippet_ (`<secure-properties:config/>`) by pressing Ctrl+Space (Mac) or Cmd+Space(Windows), typing the initial letters of the element name, such as `secu`, and then selecting the snippet.
```

+
The XML for an unmodified snippet looks like this above a `<flow/>` element:
+
[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="ukvpll" 
  file="${env}.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
      <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>

<flow name="some-flow" >
...
----
+
The snippet preconfigures parts of the element that the basic XML configuration does not, so be sure to select the _snippet_ and _not_ the basic XML for this element, which has the same name but a different icon. Like all snippets, this snippet is identified by a two-dimensional box icon, while the basic XML for this element has a three-dimensional box icon. 
.
.. Configure the snippet with values for the `file`, `key`, and `algorithm` attributes, for example:
+
[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="ddzpxf" 
  file="dev.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
   <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>
----
+
* `file`: Name of your properties file 
+

> To use the variable `$\{env}` in your filename configuration: 

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to use the variable `$\{env}` in your filename configuration, see <<prop-files>> for guidance.
```

.. Deploy the application locally within the IDE by pressing Ctrl+shift+p (Windows) or CmdCtrl+shift+p (Mac), and entering *View: Show Run and Debug*, then clicking *Run and Debug*.
+
A successful deployment produces the following message in the *OUTPUT* tab of the output panel. For information about the output panel, see xref:configure-default-output-panel.adoc[].
+
----
**********************************************************************
*              - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************************
* default                                       * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************************
----
+
If the application does not deploy successfully, check the console for the error and troubleshoot. 
. If you intend to deploy your application to CloudHub, proceed to <<deploy-to-cloudhub>>.
+
This procedure shows you the hidden encryption key name in Runtime Manager. 

//H2 PROCEDURE: DEPLOY
[[deploy-to-cloudhub]]
== Deploy to CloudHub with Sensitive Values Hidden

> If you don't hide the value of an encryption key or other property in the Runtime Manager UI when you deploy an application to CloudHub, Runtime Manager displays that value (see xref:cloudhub-1::cloudhub-manage-props.adoc[]). 

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't hide the value of an encryption key or other property from the Runtime Manager UI when you deploy an application to CloudHub, Runtime Manager displays that value (see xref:cloudhub-1::cloudhub-manage-props.adoc[]). 
```

* `sandbox.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for a pre-production environment
* `prod.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for the production environment

Consistent filename patterns enable you to use a `$\{env}` variable in your configuration XML for the prefix to the filename, for example, `$\{env}.properties.yaml` or `$\{env}.secure.yaml`. 

[[prefix]]
Notice the value of the `file` attribute in this example:

[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="acegik" 
  file="${env}.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
      <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>
----

For step-by-step instructions for using the `env` variable, see <<create-prop-file>>.

//H2 PROCEDURE: ENCRYPT
[[encrypt]]
== Encrypt Sensitive Values in a Mule Application

Use the Secure Properties Tool to encrypt sensitive data in your properties files. 

image::acb-project-directory.png["Project Directory for a Mule Application Workspace"]

. Create a properties file with _unencrypted_ properties:

> .. Open the project for your Mule application to its `src/main/resources` directory.
> .. Create a YAML file with a name like `dev.secure.yaml` or `local.secure.yaml` that configures properties as key-value pairs. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
.. Open the `src/main/resources` directory of your project, and create a YAML file with a name like `dev.secure.yaml` or `local.secure.yaml` that configures properties as key-value pairs. For example:
```

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Unencrypted Values for All Keys
| Encrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys

|
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
  uname: myusername
  pw: mypassword
----
|
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
  uname: "![UqoJI2fvggE=]"
  pw: "![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]"
----
|===

You can create separate properties files for your unencrypted and encrypted properties. For example: 

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Unencrypted Values of `workingDir` and `host` Keys
| Encrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys

| 
.`dev.properties.yaml` content:
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
----
|
.`dev.secure.yaml` content:
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  uname: "![UqoJI2fvggE=]"
  pw: "![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]"
----
|===

For step-by-step instructions, see <<encrypt>>. 

//H3 section: reference 
[[reference-use]]
=== References to Properties and Property Files in the Configuration XML

> Reference property files, and use property values in the configuration XML:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reference property files and use property values in the configuration XML:
```

* If your properties file does not contain _any_ encrypted properties:
** Use this syntax to reference the property value: `${property-key}`
** Use this global element to reference the file: `<configuration-properties/>`
+

> For example, assume the property `port: "8081"` in properties file `ports.yaml`, use `${port}` as the value of the `port` attribute in `<http:listener-config/>`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, assuming that the `port: "8081"` property is in the properties file `ports.yaml`, use `${port}` as the value of the `port` attribute in `<http:listener-config/>`:
```

+
[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="acegik" 
  file="dev.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
      <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>

<ftp:config name="FTP_Config" doc:name="FTP Config" doc:id="abcdefg" >
  <ftp:connection workingDir="${secure::ftp.workingDir}" host="${secure::ftp.host}"
    port="21" username="${secure::ftp.uname}" password="${secure::ftp.pw}" />
</ftp:config>
<flow>
  ...
</flow>
---- 
+
For step-by-step instructions with encrypted values, see <<encrypt>>. 

[[prop-files]]
=== Property Files for Different Deployment Targets

Hosts, ports, directories, and other settings in the configuration XML often differ depending on the target environment for your deployment, such as the development, sandbox, or production environment. For example, on your desktop, the host name is typically `localhost`, the port something like `8081`, and the directory is a path on your local machine rather than a path to an external host.

> When developing your application in the IDE, create separate properties files for each of the target environment that requires different settings, and provide the  appropriate settings in each file. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When developing your application in the IDE, create separate properties files for each of the target environments that require different settings, and provide the appropriate settings in each file. 
```

[[filename-patterns]]
Typical filenames follow patterns like these:

* `dev.properties.yaml` or `dev.secure.yaml` for your development environment in the IDE
* `sandbox.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for a pre-production environment
* `prod.properties.yaml` or `sandbox.secure.yaml` for the production environment

> Consistent filename patterns enable you to use an `$\{env}` variable in your configuration XML for the prefix to the filename, for example, `$\{env}.properties.yaml` or `$\{env}.secure.yaml`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consistent filename patterns enable you to use a `$\{env}` variable in your configuration XML for the prefix to the filename, for example, `$\{env}.properties.yaml` or `$\{env}.secure.yaml`. 
```

[[prefix]]
Notice the value of the `file` attribute in this example:

[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="acegik" 
  file="${env}.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
      <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>
----

For step-by-step instructions for using the `env` variable, see <<create-prop-file>>.

//H2 PROCEDURE: ENCRYPT
[[encrypt]]
== Encrypt Sensitive Values in a Mule Application

Use the Secure Properties Tool to encrypt sensitive data in your properties files. 

. Create a properties file with _unencrypted_ properties:
+
//TODO: ADD SCREENSHOT OF DIRECTORY AND PROPERTIES FILE

> .. Open the project for your Mule application to its `src/main/resources` directory.

Reviewer 3: In the `src/main/resources` directory, open the project for your Mule application.

Reviewer 3: I wasn't sure what it meant to open a project **to** its directory? But if that makes sense in the context of ACB, leave it how it is.

Author: Fixing this. Consolidating steps to make it more clear.

.. Create a YAML file with a name like `dev.secure.yaml` or `local.secure.yaml` that configures properties as key-value pairs. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
myprop : "somevalue"

mysensitiveprop : "somesensitivevalue"
---- 
+
For more guidance, see <<properties>>.
. Encrypt sensitive properties:
.. Download the https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.4/_attachments/secure-properties-tool.jar[Secure Properties Tool], an executable JAR file for encrypting properties.
.. From the command line, run the Secure Properties Tool on the values you intend to secure.
+
.Example that encrypts `"mysensitivevalue"` using Blowfish and `my-key` for an encryption key password:
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \ string \
encrypt \
Blowfish \
CBC \
my-key \
"mysensitivevalue" 
----
+

> :Important: Be sure to store your encryption key value in a safe location that you can retrieve when you deploy your application. If deploy with the wrong value, the deployment will fail because it will decrypt your sensitive value. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Important: Be sure to store your encryption key value (password) in a safe location that you can retrieve when you deploy your application. If you do not enter the correct password, the application is able to upload to CloudHub, but the deployment will fail because the password will not work.
```

Reviewer 3: I wasn't sure about this:
"Be sure to store your encryption key value in a safe location that you can retrieve when you deploy your application."
Are they retrieving the location or the key? If it's location, stet.

Reviewer 3: Also, with the wrong value, the key gets decrypted, so the deployment fails? Or the deployment fails because your key is decrypted. I wasn't sure.

Author: Yeah, it wasn't clear at all. 🤣 That encryption key value is like an encryption (and decryption) password. If the wrong password is supplied, the deployment fails to complete successfully bc the decryption can't take place. 

Anyway, I've reworded it.

+
.Encrypted Output:
[source,terminal]
----
/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5
----
+
For more information, see <<encrypt>>. 

. In your properties file, add each encrypted property value within `![]` brackets.
+
.Example that replaces the unencrypted value `"mysensitivevalue"` with the encrypted value `"![/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5]"`:
[source,yaml]
----
myprop : "somevalue"
mysensitiveprop : "![/MU0/xB/zoMPjxBA7/9X44Ad2H8O8AY5]"
---- 
For guidance, see <<properties>>.

. Use the encrypted value in a Mule application:
+
//TODO: SCREENSHOT OF FLOW AND CONFIGURED Secure Configuration Properties snippet

> .. Add the key to the encrypted property as a value of an attribute in connector or component XML. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Add the key to the encrypted property as a value of an attribute in the connector or component XML. For example:
```

  doc:name="Set payload" doc:id="abcdef" />
----
.. Above the `<flow/>` element in your the configuration XML, add the Secure Configuration Properties _snippet_ (`<secure-properties:config/>`) by pressing Ctrl+Space (Mac) or Cmd+Space(Windows), typing the initial letters of the element name, such as `secu`, and selecting the snippet.
+
image::acb-snippet-secure-config-prop.png["Selecting Secure Configuration Properties Snippet"]
+
The XML for an unmodified snippet looks like this above a `<flow/>` element:
+
[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="ukvpll" 
  file="${env}.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
      <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>

<flow name="some-flow" >
...
----
+
The snippet preconfigures parts of the element that the basic XML configuration does not, so be sure to select the _snippet_ and _not_ the basic XML for this element, which has the same name but a different icon. Like all snippets, this snippet is identified by a two-dimensional box icon, while the basic XML for this element has a three-dimensional box icon. 
.

> .. Configure the snippet with values for the `file`, `key`, and `algorithm` attributes. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Configure the snippet with values for the `file`, `key`, and `algorithm` attributes, for example:
```

Author: Diane makes me do it the other way. 😆 I always did it your way in the past. I'm going with yours. (rebelling!)

+
[source,xml]
----
<secure-properties:config name="Secure_Properties_Config" 
  doc:name="Secure Properties Config" doc:id="ddzpxf" 
  file="dev.secure.yaml" key="${encryption.key}" >
   <secure-properties:encrypt algorithm="Blowfish" />
</secure-properties:config>
----
+
* `file`: Name of your properties file 
+

> To use the variable `$\{env}` in your filename configuration, see <<reference-use>>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the variable `$\{env}` in your filename configuration: 
```

* `name`: A name of your choice for the encryption key (defaults to `${encryption.key}`).

> * `algorithm`: Algorithm you used to encrypt your secure properties (defaults to Blowfish in the snippet). Other <<algorithms, algorithms>> are available.

Reviewer 3: Can we add the link to the reference after so it's not breaking up the flow?

Author: Yes. Thx for noticing that. I need to figure out where

NOTE TO SELF:  see <<reference-use>>

> * `algorithm`: Algorithm you used to encrypt your secure properties (defaults to Blowfish in the snippet). Other <<algorithms, algorithms>> are available.

Reviewer 3: Is <<algorithms, algorithms>> intentionally repeated?

Author: yeah, there's no title for it to use as replacement text, so you have to supply your own replacement text, or it renders like [algorithms] or something and doesn't work. At least I think that's what happened. 🧠 🍳

. Test your application in the IDE:
.. Navigate to *Manage* (gear icon) > *Settings*, and find *Runtime: Default Arguments* on the *Settings* page. 
.. In the *Runtime: Default Arguments* field, add the key-value pair for your encryption key to the _end_ of the configuration. For example:
+
[source,key-configuration]
----
-M-Dencryption.key=my-key
----
+
In the example, `-M-D` is the required prefix, `encryption.key` is the default name of the encryption key, and `my-key` is the value used to encrypt the properties through the Secure Properties Tool. 

> .. Deploy the application locally within the IDE by pressing Ctrl+shift+p (Windows) or CmdCtrl+shift+p (Mac), entering *View: Show Run and Debug*, and clicking *Run and Debug*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Deploy the application locally within the IDE by pressing Ctrl+shift+p (Windows) or CmdCtrl+shift+p (Mac), and entering *View: Show Run and Debug*, then clicking *Run and Debug*.
```

+
A successful deployment produces the following message in the *OUTPUT* tab of the output panel. For information about the output panel, see xref:configure-default-output-panel.adoc[].
+
----
**********************************************************************
*              - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************************
* default                                       * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************************
----
+
If the application does not deploy successfully, check the console for the error and troubleshoot. 
. If you intend to deploy your application to CloudHub, proceed to <<deploy-to-cloudhub>>.
+
This procedure shows you the hidden encryption key name in Runtime Manager. 

//H2 PROCEDURE: DEPLOY
[[deploy-to-cloudhub]]
== Deploy to CloudHub with Sensitive Values Hidden

> Hide the value of an encryption key or other property in the Runtime Manager UI when you deploy an application to CloudHub. Runtime Manager otherwise displays that value (see xref:cloudhub-1::cloudhub-manage-props.adoc[]). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don't hide the value of an encryption key or other property in the Runtime Manager UI when you deploy an application to CloudHub, Runtime Manager displays that value (see xref:cloudhub-1::cloudhub-manage-props.adoc[]). 
```

+
----
Failed to deploy to CloudHub: 403 User unauthorized to access requested resource
----

To hide sensitive values from the Runtime Manager UI when you deploy to CloudHub: 

. In the `mule-artifact.json` file for your application, provide the _name_ of the encryption key (`encryption.key` by default) that you provided in the global `<secure-properties:config/>` snippet within your configuration XML. For example:
+
----
{
    "minMuleVersion": "4.4.0",
    "secureProperties": [encryption.key, other.value.to.hide]
}
----
+
The _name_ (not the _value_) of your encryption key goes into a comma-separated `secureProperties` array. Later in this procedure, when you deploy your application to CloudHub, the IDE prompts you to provide the _value_ of the encryption key that you provided through the Secure Configuration Tool when encrypting your sensitive properties.
. Deploy your application to CloudHub by pressing Cmd+shift+p (Windows) or Ctrl+shift+p (Mac) and entering *MuleSoft: Deploy to CloudHub*.
. When prompted, enter _the same value_ you used to encrypt your secure properties.
+

> If you do not enter the same value, the application is able to upload to CloudHub, but the deployment will fail because the encryption key value will not work.

Reviewer 3: I think this is more concise than the description up in int-create-secure-configs.adoc, line 254

Author: good idea; glad I repeated it 🤣 I'll put the same text above

. Select the *Sandbox* environment for your deployment.
+
Other environments are not supported, and attempts to deploy to the *Design* environment fail with a `500` error code. While the deployment is in progress, the IDE provides the status of the process and prompts you to open the application in Runtime Manager when the deployment completes.  
+

> It is possible for an application to upload correctly but fail to complete the deployment process successfully, for example, because the provided encryption key value is invalid. The error message says that the application `was not successfully deployed to "Sandbox" in CloudHub`, but it provides a way to *Open in Runtime Manager* to check the logs and correct some issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In some cases, it's possible for an application to upload correctly but fail to complete the deployment process successfully, for example, because the provided encryption key value is invalid. The error message says that the application `was not successfully deployed to "Sandbox" in CloudHub`, but it provides a way to *Open in Runtime Manager* to check the logs and correct some issues.
```

. Click *Open in Runtime Manager* to open the management options for the application in Runtime Manager.
. Check the deployment in Runtime Manager to ensure that the encryption key is hidden.
+
In the *Applications* screen for the *SANDBOX* environment, check the *Status* field for your application:

* If the status is *Started*, the deployment is successful, and the application is running.
* If the status is *Deploy failed*, click the name of your application, and navigate to *Logs* to discover the cause of the failure.
+
If the encryption key value is wrong, the error is `org.mule.encryption.exception.MuleEncryptionException: Could not encrypt or decrypt the data.`
+
To fix this error:
+

> . Navigate to *Settings* > *Properties* for your application in Runtime Manager. . Provide the correct value for your encryption key in the field for the encryption key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Navigate to *Settings* > *Properties* for your application in Runtime Manager and provide the correct value for your encryption key in the field for the encryption key.
```

* Click *Apply Changes*.
+

> Runtime Manager apply your changes and attempt to deploy your application. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Runtime Manager applies your changes and attempt to deploy your application. 
```

For more information, see xref:runtime-manager::index.adoc[]. For information about CloudHub, see xref:cloudhub-1::index.adoc[].

[[create-prop-file]]
== Provide Settings for Different Environments

When developing your application, create separate properties files for each target environment (such as development, sandbox, or production) that requires different settings, and provide the appropriate settings in each file. 

> The file names must follow a consistent pattern so that you can configure a variable such as `$\{env}` as a modifiable prefix that enables you to switch to the file that contains settings for the environment in which your application runs. You can include encrypted and unencrypted property values in the files.

Reviewer 3: I know you know that there is some repetitive info here. Maybe you can reuse some of these paragraphs? Maybe later on, not now

Author: Good idea, yes! I also need to just consolidate some of this so I can quit repeating. 

NOTE TO SELF

. If you are using the `<secure-properties/>` or another element that points to your properties file, provide a prefix, such as `$\{env}`, to the file name. For example:
+
----
file="${env}.secure.yaml"
----
+
See <<prefix, Secure Properties example>> for more detail. 
. Add a `<global-property/>` element to the configuration XML that defines the value of `env` property. 
+
[source,xml]
----
<global-property name="env" value="dev" />
----
+
After deploying to CloudHub, you can add a new value through the Runtime Manager UI that takes precedence over this setting.
. Before deploying to CloudHub, make sure the application deploys locally in the IDE:
.. Deploy your application to CloudHub by pressing Cmd+shift+p (Windows) or Ctrl+shift+p (Mac) and entering *MuleSoft: Deploy to CloudHub*.
.. If prompted, enter _the same value_ you used to encrypt your secure properties.
.. Select the *Sandbox* environment for your deployment.
. Once the deployment is complete, click *Open in Runtime Manager* to open the management options for the application in Runtime Manager.
. Set the `env` property for the application in Runtime Manager:

> .. Click *Settings* > *Properties* tab for the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Click *Settings* > *Properties* for the application.
```

Reviewer 3: Or, if you think it's important to mention tab because the UI might not be clear, just add "the" in front of Settings.

Author: One less word. I'm happy. 😄

= Define and Secure Properties for a Mule Application

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

Create properties that enable you to:

> * Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.

Author: ```suggestion
* Define and use variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 
* Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.
```

* This example encrypts `"myusername"` as `dlwfnITNF2aBCLn588sgFA==`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \
> string \
> encrypt \
> Blowfish \
> CBC \
> my-key \
> "myusername"
dlwfnITNF2aBCLn588sgFA==
----

* This example encrypts `"mypassword"` as `n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ java -cp secure-properties-tool.jar com.mulesoft.tools.SecurePropertiesTool \
> string \
> encrypt \
> Blowfish \
> CBC \
> my-key \
> "mypassword"
n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==
----

[[algorithms]]
MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool and the Secure Properties element (`<secure-properties/>`) accept the following algorithms:

* AES 
* Blowfish
* DES
* DESede
* RC2
* RCA

[[ciphers]]
//This comes from Mule Runtime docs. Not verified in ACB yet by me:
MuleSoft Secure Properties Tool and the Secure Properties element (`<secure-properties/>`) accept the following ciphers:

* CBC (default)
* CFB
* ECB
* OFB

For step-by-step instructions on encrypting properties in a Mule application, see <<encrypt>>. 

//H3 section: properties 
//some tasks link to additional guidance with the properties
[[properties]]

> === Configuration Properties Files

Author: @pablocabrera85 I rewrote this section and another below to account for your feedback. Do you have any time to review it?

Author: Matias Hernando Perez
  [1:02 PM](https://salesforce-internal.slack.com/archives/D05GQKQSQBT/p1690488177668809)
I just checked it. Looks fine. I

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Unencrypted Values for All Keys
| Encrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys

|
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
  uname: myusername
  pw: mypassword
----
|
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
  uname: "![UqoJI2fvggE=]"
  pw: "![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]"
----
|===

You can create separate properties files for your unencrypted and encrypted properties. For example: 

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Unencrypted Values of `workingDir` and `host` Keys
| Encrypted Values of `uname` and `pw` Keys

| 
.`dev.properties.yaml` content:
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  workingDir: /Users/me/myworkingdir
  host: localhost
----
|
.`dev.secure.yaml` content:
[source,yaml]
----
ftp:
  uname: "![UqoJI2fvggE=]"
  pw: "![n2LDIOKKxhQ5Tdv5AeCtFQ==]"
----
|===

For step-by-step instructions, see <<encrypt>>. 

//H3 section: reference 
[[reference-use]]

> === References to Properties and Property Files in the Configuration XML

Author: @matias-mule  I also this section to account for your feedback. Do you have any time to review it?

Author: Matias Hernando Perez
  [1:02 PM](https://salesforce-internal.slack.com/archives/D05GQKQSQBT/p1690488177668809)
I just checked it. Looks fine. I

. Before deploying to CloudHub, make sure the application deploys locally in the IDE:
.. Deploy your application to CloudHub by pressing Cmd+shift+p (Windows) or Ctrl+shift+p (Mac) and entering *MuleSoft: Deploy to CloudHub*.
.. If prompted, enter _the same value_ you used to encrypt your secure properties.
.. Select the *Sandbox* environment for your deployment.
. Once the deployment is complete, click *Open in Runtime Manager* to open the management options for the application in Runtime Manager.
. Set the `env` property for the application in Runtime Manager:
.. Click *Settings* > *Properties* tab for the application.
.. In the *Properties* tab, provide a new *env* key with a value that matches the environment, such as *sandbox*, and the prefix to the file name (such as `sandbox.properties.yaml`).
.. Click *Apply Changes* to launch a deployment with the new setting for `env` in your application.
+
The new setting makes the application use the properties file with the prefix that matches the value you provided for *env* in Runtime Manager. This setting overrides the global property setting (`<global-property/>`) in the configuration XML for your application. 

> //TODO: IS THERE ANOTHER WAY TO SET env? WHAT ABOUT FOR ON-PREM? 

Author: question: IS THERE ANOTHER WAY TO SET env? WHAT ABOUT FOR ON-PREM? 

@matias-mule

Reviewer: Yes, for local run you can add the property at the launch.json file (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DeCZStPFIkSQSUruomDeR_AembzEvg0MN3t59W62nQA/edit#heading=h.appkjincbvo2)
Like here: https://github.com/mulesoft/mule-dx-acb-examples-documentation/blob/388caa51a5ef6f15270901f8ad858b3fdd6e20ef/secure-properties-app/.vscode/launch.json#L10

Author: ok, we decided not to go too deep into this just yet

= Define and Secure Properties for a Mule Application

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

Create properties that enable you to:

> * Define and use variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 
> * Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.

Author: ```suggestion
* Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.
* Define and use variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 
```

> * Define and use variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Define and use configuration property variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 
```

> * Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application.
> * Define and use configuration property variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML. 
> 
> * Select different property files for a specific deployment environment, such as  development, sandbox, or production. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Encrypt sensitive values used in your Mule application
* Define and use variables instead of literal strings when setting values in the configuration XML
* Select different property files for a specific deployment environment, such as development, sandbox, or production 
```
